The criteria for grading the final project will be:

Presentation (10pts): Is the project report of top quality, (e.g. as shown in the template), or does it include figures that are just screenshots of some experiment run on a notebook instead of properly exported vector graphics (e.g. PDF) figures created with matplotlib or similar tool, if any plots do not have clear labeling for what is being shown in the x-axis or what are the units being presented also leads to points deducted, if the images included look too low resolution also points deducted, things out of margins same thing. Any of those issues will get points deducted automatically as will any issues that just make the report not looking professional. The presentation in the project report has to be scientific manuscript quality.

Results (10pts): Does the report present results in a way that is easy to understand? -- e.g. example of input outputs of the developed model/system (qualitative results) -- and does the project provide quantitative empirical and/or statistical evidence of the model/system/solution? (quantitative results) -- e.g. plots/figures/tables/etc. Ideally most projects should have both types of "results".

Technical soundness (10pts): Is the project describing how the solution and its components were used with good amount of details and correct technical accuracy? Is the report describing things in a technically appropriate way? Are equations/pseudocode or the statistical analyses presented correct? The report should provide enough details to understand what was done just by reading it.  If there is a need to inspect the code associated with the project to understand what was done, then technical soundness will not receive as high a score. If a component was re-used e.g. CLIP or something else, but from reading the report it seems obvious this was used without proper understanding of this external module does, then also points will be deducted. 

Originality [10pts]: Either in the idea itself, the application itself, or the experiments presented in the final report. Is the report teaching the reader something new that is not obvious? The more clear this answer is yes, the more likely the project report will get full points on this part. AI Assistants are notoriously bad at being creative in proposing projects, so I would at most use them for brainstorming.


Professor Feedback: Building your own entailment benchmark by word substitution on the COCO dataset is a good idea. Please go ahead but I would also test the Qwen2.5VL model beyond just the CLIP model. Also why do we need an MLP classifier? Why not use CLIP scores?